Problem Statement: 
As a user when I try to update the email id in the wayfair website, it gets updated successfully. But when I try to authenticate again after logging out, I am being sent OTP to my outdated email.

Issue Quantum : This issue has been identified via customer escalations. 
We have got about ~100 escalations.
We manually update the desired email into the systems as quick fix.

Root cause:

The following are learnings while trying to replicate the user issue.

The data is stored in two tables. 
1. AuthIdentity Service -> SQL -> Table tblUser
2. Core Customer Data Service -> SQL -> Table tblCustomer 


Whenever we update the email address, the wayfair php executes the /connect/token with claim to update the email address from Personal_Info_Controller -> edit() -> updateAuthIdentityEmailForIdentityVerifiedUser() -> changeEmailForIdentityVerifiedUser() -> getToken(). It sends old and new email address in the payload with "grant_type" as "change_email" to Auth Identity Service

The AuthIdentity Service receives the payload in the ChangeEmailGrantValidator as this is the validator registered for grant_type "change_email". This validator updates email to the DB via a call to UserStore UpdateUserEmailAsync().

After the above AuthIdentity flow, Personal_Info_Controller -> edit() function then calls a save() function of Customer_Model which updates the customer record in tblCustomer via update_customer() -> updateLegacyCustomer() of Core_Customer_Data_Client which hits the CCDS service

The CCDS service's updatedLegacyCustomer() in LegacyCustomerController gets the request. The DB is updated via updateCustomer() in CustomerService



Next steps 
1. ~~Identify how the data is stored onto these tables.~~ 
2. Figure out if there could be any possibilities of race conditions happening. 
3. Figure out if there are external writes happening to these tables apart from these flows. 


-----------

Work log for 16 Oct: 

1. Investigated email update issue tied to two tables: TblUser and TblCustomer.
2. Unclear who writes data to these tables.
3. Need to investigate potential race conditions and external writes.
4. Next steps: Identify how data is stored and check for race conditions or external writes.
